The lobster is joining the lab. Here's
what OpenAI's hire of Peter Steinberger,
inventor of Open Claw, actually means.
So, Peter Steinberger built the fastest
growing open-source project in GitHub
history in his living room, all while
bleeding $20,000 a month. Then, on
Valentine's Day, he posted three
paragraphs on his personal blog
announcing he was joining OpenAI. Sam
Alman followed up with a post on X
calling Steinberger a quote genius that
would drive the next generation of
personal agents. The announcement landed
less than 48 hours after OpenClaw
shipped its most significant security
update ever, patching more than 40
vulnerabilities across the frankly brand
new platform. This is not a coincidence,
and it is not primarily an aqua hire,
even though it's being painted as such.
What happened this weekend is the
clearest signal yet of where the AI
industry is headed in 2026, which is
frankly away from chat bots, toward
agents that do real work on real
computers, and toward the brutal
competitive question of who gets to own
the platform layer underneath them. So
to understand why this hire matters, you
need to understand three things.
[snorts] First, what Open Claw really is
at root. Second, why open AAI needed it
more than Steinberger needed OpenAI. And
third, what changes now for the roughly
200,000 developers who had started the
project on GitHub. First, let's step
back to the Friday night hack that
produced 200,000 GitHub stars. The
origin of Open Claw borders on the
absurd. On a Friday night in November of
2025, Peter Steinberger, who's an
Austrian developer who had already sold
his PDF framework company for over a
hundred million, sat down and built a
prototype in about an hour. The concept
was relatively simple. just wire up a
large language model into WhatsApp so he
could read messages, browse the web, and
execute shell commands on your behalf.
Steinberger had spent three years
deliberately away from tech after his
exit. He went traveling, he did therapy,
he experimented with Iawasa, and he
cycled through what he's described as a
period of deep searching. He came back
to coding because AI pulled him back.
Before Open Claw, he'd turned through 43
different projects. Think about that the
next time your idea fails. Number 44
turned out to be the one for him. The
initial version was quite crude. It
connected a messaging interface to
Claude and Thropics language model and
it could do basic tasks. Ber open
sourced it as quote Claudebot on on
Claude and the lobster claw that became
the project's mascot. By mid January, it
had around 2,000 GitHub stars, which was
respectable for a side project, but not
yet a phenomenon. Then everything
detonated at once. On January 27,
Anthropic's legal team sent a trademark
notice. Claudebot sounded too much like
Claude. Steinberger agreed to rename. He
chose Maltbot. Lobsters malt when they
outgrow their shells. During the
renaming process, in the literal few
seconds between releasing his old GitHub
handle and claiming the new one, crypto
scammers sniped the account and began
promoting a fake Clawude token on
Salana. They served malware from his
GitHub. They hijacked his npm packages.
Steinberger nearly deleted the entire
project. Three days later, he renamed
the project one more time to Open Claw.
This time with purchase domains,
completed trademark searches, and a
coordinated account exchange, which was
executed with what he described as
Manhattan Project level secrecy. He also
spent $10,000 to buy a dormant Twitter
business account to secure the handle.
All of this chaos, paradoxically, was
the accelerant. Each rename triggered
new threads on Reddit and Hacker News.
The the trademark drama drew even more
media coverage. A simultaneous launch of
Multibook, an experimental social
network designed exclusively for AI
agents, went viral with Fortune, CNBC,
and TechCrunch, all covering AI bots
creating their own religions, their
governments, their existential poetry.
Within weeks, Open Claw had soared,
crossing a 100,000 GitHub stars, and it
just kept going. Now it's up to 200,000
stars and it is easily the fastest
growing repository in GitHub's history
with more than 10,000 commits from 600
contributors in under three months. The
numbers do matter, but they obscure a
more important point. OpenClaw proved
that a self-hosted AI agent could do
things that no chatbot had done before.
Ultimately, that's why it grew. It
didn't just answer questions for users.
It managed emails, scheduled meetings,
controlled browsers, executed shell
commands, sent messages across WhatsApp,
Telegram, Slack, Discord, Signal, and
iMessage. It ran on your hardware if you
wanted it to, and it stored your data
locally, again, if you wanted it to. And
its most unsettling feature, the one
that made researchers both excited and
alarmed, was that it could modify its
own source code. So, that's the story of
Open Claw. Why OpenAI over Meta? Because
both OpenAI and Meta were competing for
Peter Steinberger's attention and for a
stake in that open- source framework.
Before dissecting what OpenAI got, it's
worth understanding the negotiation
Steinberger walked through because the
way he chose reveals what this deal is
really about. Both Mark and Sam made
concrete offers. Zuckerberg reached out
via WhatsApp initially and when
Steinberger suggested they just call
right then instead of scheduling, Zuck
asked for a few minutes, apparently
because he needed to finish coding. That
detail clearly resonated for Peter, a
founder who built his reputation on
shipping. Zuckerberg tried OpenClaw
personally and sent a message calling it
amazing. He also gave really blunt
product feedback, alternating between
praise and pointed criticism. And Peter
valued that directness, noting that
hands-on engagement showed that Zach
actually cared about the product. I
mean, I have yet I have yet to meet a
developer that didn't appreciate
specific and useful product feedback. On
the OpenAI side, Sam's pitch came with
something more tangible. A promise of
computational power tied to the Sarah
deal that could dramatically accelerate
agent performance, plus the fact that
OpenAI was already contributing tokens
to the project. It got lost in all of
the shuffle, but Peter Steinberger built
Open Claw using codecs. Steinberger
described his conversations with Alman
as thoughtful and substantive, and he
also acknowledged having more personal
connections at OpenAI and a deeper
history of building on their tech. But
Peter admitted that he didn't get the
same hands-on product engagement from
OpenAI that he had gotten from Zuck. The
deciding factor appears to have been
mission alignment rather than personal
chemistry. Steinberger's stated goal,
building an agent his mother could use,
requires access to frontier models and
the kind of research pipeline only a
hyperscaler lab could provide. He spent
the week before the announcement in San
Francisco meeting with labs getting
access to unreleased research. And
fundamentally, he came away saying
OpenAI's vision most closely matched his
own. Critically, OpenAI also agreed to
support OpenClaw as an independent open-
source project through a foundation,
which preserves the condition
Steinberger called non-negotiable from
the start. The last thing he wanted was
to have Open Claw become closed source,
to close the claw. His attitude
throughout the process was
characteristically blunt. When
Freriedman asked him if this was the
hardest decision he'd faced, Peter
Steinberger replied, "Nah." The man who
already had a nine-figure exit and had
spent three years soulsearching before
returning to code does not apparently
agonize over these kinds of career
moves. The beauty is if it doesn't work
out, I can just do my own thing again,
he told Freriedman. That posture,
complete optionality, zero desperation
gave him more leverage than most Aqua
hire candidates ever have. So, what did
OpenAI actually get? Open AAI did not
acquire OpenClaw. I want to be precise
about that. Steinberger, the individual,
is joining the company as an employee.
Open Claw itself is moving to an
independent foundation and will remain
open source. Altman confirmed on X that
OpenAI will continue to sponsor the
project. This is a really important
distinction. OpenAI got Steinberger his
vision, his developer credibility, his
community influence, and his proven
ability to build agentic systems. people
actually use. What they did not get is
exclusive control of OpenClaw, the
platform. The Chrome and Chromium model
that Seinberger had floated in his Lex
Freedman interview appears to be roughly
what's taking shape. In other words,
OpenClaw as the open source foundation,
like Chromium, the engine that powers
Chrome, and OpenAI's consumer products
as the polished commercial layer on top
of it, similar to Google's Chrome. That
said, three assets came with Steinberger
that are genuinely hard to replicate.
The first is developer trust.
Steinberger is not a corporate product
manager who shipped an agent from inside
a lab. He's an independent developer who
built OpenClaw in public, bled cash to
keep it running, and routed sponsorship
money to dependencies instead of
pocketing it. And he told Lex on camera
that when it came to the acquisition
talks with Meta and OpenAI, quote, I
don't do this for the money. I don't
give a f. That posture substantiated by
the fact that he'd already had a
nine-figure exit gave him authenticity
with developers that no amount of
marketing spend could manufacture and
that it's hard to get and that it's way.
The second is architectural knowledge.
Open claw is not a toy demo. It is a
platform with a gateway architecture, a
skills marketplace, clawhub, browser
control, cron scheduling, multimodel
support for claude, chat, GPT, Grock,
Deepseek, and other open source LLMs,
and integrations spanning a dozen
messaging platforms. It runs on Mac OS,
Linux, and via Docker. The security
challenges it has faced and the
solutions Steinberger and his community
have developed represent hard one
knowledge about what happens when you
give an AI agent real access to real
systems. That knowledge is directly
transferable to whatever OpenAI is
building next. The third thing that
OpenAI got ironically is community. 600
contributors, a Discord server that
became a gathering point for some of the
most creative and unhinged agent
experiments on the internet. a global
user base that includes developers
building AI controlled mini breweries,
smart home automations and DevOps
pipelines. The Open Claw community is
chaotic, inventive, and deeply invested.
Exactly the kind of ecosystem Open AI
needs if it wants to compete in the
agent layer, and they were very wise to
not claim full control of that
community. It is an open- source
community and would resist that kind of
ownership. The timing of all of this is
not coincidental. It's not even driven
by the popularity of OpenCloud
necessarily, although that was a factor.
Look at what OpenAI is looking at more
broadly across the board in midFebruary
2026. Anthropics Claude code has hit a
billion dollars in annualized revenue in
just 6 months since launch. It has
become the default coding tool for a
generation of developers and its
momentum has showed no signs of slowing
despite continued strong launches from
OpenAI. OpenAI's Codeex product launched
as a Mac OS app in early February was
supposed to be the counter punch and
positioned as a command center for
agentic coding. But Codex is playing
catch-up right now in a market where
developer loyalty is becoming sticky and
switching costs may become real.
Meanwhile, Peter Steinberger has been
walking around for weeks publicly
describing himself as the biggest unpaid
promoter for Codeex. And I have to say
that makes a ton of sense. I've been
saying for a long time that deeply
experienced developers like Peter get
more out of codeex because codeex
optimizes for correct code over long
runs if you specify upfront what you
need with the experience of a senior
developer. That's what Peter is. He's
going to get great results out of
Codeex. He had been building OpenClaw
using OpenAI's models all along. And he
had recorded a three-hour Lex Freriedman
episode, one of the most widely viewed
tech podcasts on Earth, comparing GPT
codeex 5.3 and Claude Opus 4.6 side by
side, arguing that Codeex was reliable
and efficient and that it worked well
for his workflow. His assessment was
nuanced. Claude had stronger role-
playinging ability and was more
interactive, but was impulsive and would
sometimes write code without reading
context. Codeex would read a large
volume of code by default before
starting but was less interactive and
drier in style and then it would just
come back after 20 minutes of silence
with the job done. The bottom line for
him which is similar to what I think is
that skilled developers are going to get
very strong results with any top model
and the differences come down to
post-training goals not raw
intelligence. That kind of detailed,
credible evaluation delivered on camera
by a developer whose project has passed
180,000 GitHub stars heading toward
200,000 GitHub stars. It's worth more to
OpenAI's developer relation strategy
than any marketing campaign. Steinberger
wasn't being paid to say any of this. He
told Lex that joining OpenAI would feel
gratifying because it would finally put
a price on the work he'd done for free.
He described himself as generating a
tremendous amount of value for OpenAI
without compensation by discussing what
Codeex did for him in his role building
open clock. I think he was right. The
Codeex connection runs deeper than an
endorsement. Steinberger's development
workflow is itself a testament to what
OpenAI's coding tools are capable of
doing. He's running four to 10 agents
simultaneously, accumulated 6600 commits
in January alone, and built most of
OpenClaw's codebase by just talking to
AI rather than typing. He practices what
Andre Carpathy calls agentic engineer, a
term he much prefers to vibe coding. His
productivity on OpenClaw demonstrated at
scale what codeex could enable, and that
demonstration drove developers to try
OpenAI's tools. Bringing Steinberger
inside means that connection becomes
structural rather than accidental. The
developer who proved what Codeex could
do in the wild joins the company that
makes codeex. Every future version of
Codeex will benefit from the feedback
loop of someone who has now shipped a
massive 180 to 200,000 star GitHub
project using it. But the developer
angle is only a part of this story. The
deeper strategic logic continues to be
about agents and where they're going in
2026. Open AAI has been talking about
agents for months. Their responses API,
their agents SDK, their agent kit, all
represent building blocks for multi-step
workflows. Codeex has evolved from a
code completion tool into what they
describe as a coding surface, combining
reasoning capable models with developer
tools. Sam Alman told reporters that AI
models don't run out of dopamine and
keep trying because they don't run out
of motivation. apparently unlike
developers who run on pizza. What OpenAI
has not had is a consumer-facing agent
product that people actually use in
daily life to manage real tasks like
email, calendars, messaging, file
management, all top use cases on
OpenClaw today. And that's what OpenClaw
delivers for OpenAI. Steinberger's
stated mission at OpenAI is to build an
agent that even his mom can use and is a
direct acknowledgement that the current
state of Agentic AI is way too technical
for mainstream adoption. The gap between
what OpenClaw demonstrated is possible
and what a normal person can do safely
on their laptop is enormous. Closing
that gap requires access to frontier
models, security research, and
infrastructure that a solo developer
operating at a loss is not going to be
able to sustain. even one with a big
exit like Peter. Sam's announcement made
this very explicit. As he put it,
Steinberger's work on very smart agents
interacting with each other to do useful
things for people would become a part of
our core product offerings. That's not
really a compliment to Peter. That is
Sam saying Peter's vision is going on
OpenAI's roadmap. You can't really
understand this deal though without
understanding the security crisis that
has shadowed Open Claus growth from the
beginning. In late January, security
researcher Mav Leven of Depth first
disclosed a high severity vulnerability
in OpenClaw that allowed a one-click
remote code execution through a crafted
malicious link. The attack chain was
devastatingly simple. Just clicking the
link triggered a cross-sight websocket
hijacking attack because OpenClaw server
did not validate the websocket origin
header. That meant an attacker could
extract the victim's authentication
token and connect to their local Open
Claw gateway, disable all the safety
controls and execute arbitrary commands
even on instances configured to listen
only on local host. If you think that
sounds like they could hijack OpenClaw,
that is the right reading of that bug.
Patch shipped on January 30, but the
broader picture was alarming. Census
identified 21,000 plus exposed openclaw
instances publicly accessible on the
internet, up from around a thousand just
days earlier. Misconfigured instances
were leaking API keys, OOTH tokens, and
plain text credentials. Moltbook's
database was found to expose 35,000
email addresses and 1 and a half million
agent API tokens. Security firm Snick
reported that 7ome% of the nearly 4,000
skills in Clawub mishandled secrets like
API keys through LLM context windows.
The University of Toronto issued a
vulnerability notification. Hacker News
published a detailed writeup. All of
this felt like a blitz of overwhelming
security gaps to Peter. And Peter did
his best. Version 2026.2.1 2.1 shipped
on February 1st brought TLS 1.3 minimum
system prompt guard rails basically a
bunch of basics for security and Peter
kept going the next version shipped
February 7th with an added code safety
scanner and added support for new models
and then version 2026.2.12 2.12 released
February 12th, just 2 days before
Steinberger announced that he was going
to open AI. That was the big one. 40
plus dedicated security patches
addressing prompt injection, rce and
browser control, unauthenticated
configuration tampering, and a bundled
hook identified as quote soul evil that
had inadvertently remained in the
codebase. The timing for all of this
security work is significant.
Steinberger shipped the most
comprehensive security overhaul in Open
Claus history in the same week that he
was finalizing his decision to join
OpenAI. He did not leave the project in
a vulnerable state. He fortified it and
handed it to a foundation. I think this
also explains a part of OpenAI's
calculus. The security challenges
OpenClaw faced are not unique. They are
inherent to the category. Any company
shipping autonomous agents that can
access email, execute shell commands and
manage calendars is going to face these
problems. Steinberger has now lived
through them and Steinberger has
developed practical responses to so many
of them even operating as a solo
developer powered by agents. That kind
of scars on his hands experience is
operationally valuable to OpenAI in a
way that no amount of theoretical
security research is going to be able to
replicate. So here's the question for
all of us. What changes for Open Claw
now? For the 600 contributors and
hundreds of thousands of users, the
immediate answer is both not much and
everything. Open Claw will move to a
foundation structure. It will remain
open source. It will continue supporting
multiple models, not just Open AIs. And
Steinberger has been explicit that the
project should grow to support even more
model providers and companies. OpenAI
has committed to continuing its
sponsorship of the project regardless.
The Chrome Chromium analogy that Peter
used talking to Lex in his interview is
instructive here, although perhaps not
in the way he intended. Chrome is built
on the open-source Chromium project, but
Google's influence on Chromium's
direction is dominant. Google engineers
contribute the majority of commits, set
architectural priorities, and the
features that make it into Chrome shape
what Chromium becomes. Independent
Chromiumbas based browsers like Brave or
Edge operate within a framework largely
defined by Google's priorities.
Obviously, the risk for OpenClaw is
similar. With Steinberger now inside
Open AI, the project's founder and most
prolific contributor will inevitably be
influenced by his employer's priorities.
Features that align with OpenAI's
product roadmap may get faster
attention. Features that compete with
OpenAI's offerings. features. The
foundation structure is designed to
mitigate this. But foundations are only
as independent as their governance
allows. In the details of Open Claus
Foundation, like its board composition,
its funding sources, its contribution
policies, those have all not been
announced. There's also a practical
question about the 3,000 plus open poll
requests that Steinberger mentioned
before the deal. He committed to
processing them regardless of his
decision. But a solo developer becoming
a full-time OpenAI employee will
necessarily have less discretionary time
for open-source maintenance. The
OpenCloud community is going to need to
develop its own leadership bench. The
upside for OpenClaw users is real, too.
Open AAI has resources, compute,
security teams, model access,
infrastructure that an independent
project cannot hope to match. If OpenAI
follows through on its commitment to
sponsor the project in a meaningful way,
which is an if, Open Claw could get more
robust faster than it would have as a
one-person operation hemorrhaging cash.
The security hardening alone could
benefit enormously from access to OpenAI
security research. So, here's the
multi-billion dollar question. Now,
where does OpenAI go? Sam's phrasing
that Steinberger's work would quickly
become core to OpenAI's product offering
suggests a very specific product
direction to me. OpenAI appears to be
building very aggressively toward a
consumer agent product that goes well
beyond Chad GPT's current capabilities.
Consider what OpenAI now has in the
portfolio. Codex handles coding agents.
Chad GPT handles conversational AI. The
responses API, agents SDK, and agent kit
all provide developer infrastructure for
multi-step workflows. What's missing is
a persistent always on personal agent
that manages the messy cross-platform
reality of how people actually use their
computers and phones. The email triage,
the calendar conflicts, the Slack
follow-ups, the file organization, the
proactive task management. That is what
OpenClaude demonstrated was possible.
And that's what Steinberger says he
wants to build at Open AI, an agent his
mother can use. The technical challenges
are formidable here. Open Claw Security
Crisis proved that giving an AI agent
broad access to a user's digital life
creates an attack surface that current
security models really struggle to
contain. Steinberger's own maintainer,
known as Shadow, warned on Discord that
if someone can't understand how to run a
command line, this project is far too
dangerous to use safely. Making that
same capability safe for non-technical
users requires solving problems like
sandboxing, permission management, data
sovereignty, and model reliability
requires solving problems like
sandboxing, permission management, data
sovereignty, and model reliability that
are at the frontier of what anyone in
the industry knows how to do. Sam's
mention of smart agents interacting with
each other also signals an interest in
multi- aent architectures, systems where
specialized agents collaborate on
complex tasks. This aligns with what
OpenAI demonstrated in its harness
engineering case study where a team of
three engineers used codeex to produce
over 1500 pull requests across a million
line codebase with zero human written
code. The extension of that model from
coding to personal productivity seems
like a very natural next step and the
competitive implications here are going
to be significant. Anthropics cloud code
dominates the developer tools market
right now. Google is investing in Gemini
based agent capabilities for the
consumer. metacorted Steinberger
personally with suck reaching out via
WhatsApp and reportedly spending 10
minutes arguing with Peter over whether
claude or chat GPT was the better coding
model. Microsoft which invested heavily
in OpenAI has its own agent ambitions
through co-pilot. Apple has been quiet
but has been benefiting from that run on
Mac minis that Peter sparked through the
open claw project. Steinberger's hire
gives OpenAI a credible claim to win in
the personal agent space. Not because of
any proprietary tech, but because of the
proven execution Peter brings. He built
something 200,000 developers want to
use. He did it in just a few months. And
he did it in a way that generated the
kind of organic enthusiasm that no
marketing budget can buy. Let's step
back and look at the bigger picture
here. Beyond OpenAI, beyond OpenClaw,
Peter told Lex that OpenClaw style
agents would kill 80% of apps. His logic
is pretty simple. Every app is just a
slow API to what the user wants. And an
agent that already knows your location,
your sleep patterns, your stress levels,
and your calendar doesn't need you to
open a separate app to handle things
like fitness tracking, food ordering,
and scheduling. It will just do it. That
prediction may prove aggressive on the
timeline and conservative on the scope.
What I mean by that is that we don't
know when that's going to actually
catch. I know OpenAI is going to be
eager to have personal agents
everywhere, but product market fit is
notoriously difficult to get with
consumers. Open AAI caught Chat GPT
lightning in a bottle once. It's not yet
clear if they can do it twice with a
personal agent. Regardless, the more
fundamental shift is not about replacing
apps, but about changing the interface
layer between humans and software. For
30 years, the dominant paradigm has been
graphical user interfaces, icons, menus,
buttons, and for the past 15, it's been
touch interfaces on mobile. What
OpenClaw demonstrated imperfectly and a
great personal cost to its creator is a
third paradigm, delegation. You don't
tap an icon, you don't type a query, you
just tell the agent what you want done,
and it figures out which APIs to call,
which tools to use, which steps to take.
The fact that this paradigm emerged not
from a corporate lab but from a single
developer's living room in Vienna is
itself instructed. It suggests that the
hard problem in Agentic AI is not
primarily one of model capability. The
underlying LLMs were already good
enough. The primary challenge is one of
integration, persistence, and the
willingness to give an AI system real
access to real things. Steinberger's
contribution was not a new algorithm. It
was glue code, architectural decisions,
a messaging interface, and the audacity
to let an agent modify its own source
code. Now, that legacy of Audacity lives
on inside OpenAI. And the question is
whether it survives the transition from
an indie hacker project into a corporate
product and whether the foundation model
preserves enough independence to keep
the open-source open claw community
invested. The lobster has molted for the
last time. What it grows into next
depends on whether the new shell fits.